In this demonstration,
I want to show you some of those so-called special
purpose Control Panel settings items.
First, there was accessibility and one thing again,
you can just take advantage of click search as I call
it or you don't even need to click,
just hit the Windows key on your keyboard and start to type accessibility,
it's kind of a tough word to type actually,
and notice that there is an option to go to the
accessibility settings Control Panel, again,
that icon looks old school,
and instead of it being an outline like we have in the Windows 10 settings app,
we have the full color icon.
And sure enough, that option takes us into the Ease of Access center,
and again, we don't need to go through every option.
I have in the exercise files a pointer to where you
can learn about every option.
My goal is to make sure you understand where to find these options and then
it's your homework to learn how to use them and then to be aware of when to
use them when you're helping your customers,
relatives, friends, coworkers, employees,
etc.
Let's again, try that again,
typing accessibility and there are some Ease of Access settings
here that use the settings transparent icon,
it doesn't matter which one you click basically because it's going to
take you to the settings Ease of Access center,
and once again,
the way you navigate this is just choosing which category
you want to do and then adjusting the user interface
controls on a per service basis.
We can change the pointer size, for instance.
Notice that I've already selected the largest size and I've actually changed
the pointer color from white to black to make it easier for me to see and I
hope it's a little bit easier for you to see as well.
We've got color and high contrast options for people with low vision.
And there you have it.
Now let's come back home and I actually used the power example a moment ago,
didn't I,
where if you want to search for a specific option and you
don't want to work through the categories,
you can go directly do not pass go, do not collect $100,
go to the power and sleep settings.
There's really just a couple here in the settings interface.
If you want to go to additional power settings,
it opens up the classic Control Panel.
Actually, that reminds me of a learning point.
If you read the Microsoft literature,
what Microsoft says themselves is that you should find the majority of your
most frequently used configuration options in the Windows 10 settings app
and then for more advanced special case options,
you'll go to the classic Control Panel.
Now you can learn more about power plans by searching for
Windows Power Plans in the Pluralsight library,
but basically,
a power plan is a collection of settings that relate to things
like how long before you turn off the display,
how long before you put the computer to sleep,
do you want to put the hard disk to sleep,
do you want the network to wake up the computer if you try
to connect to the computer remotely, this kind of stuff.
As far as display settings, again, this is almost muscle,
it is muscle memory at this point.
I will almost always just right-click an unoccupied portion
of the Windows desktop and we can choose personalize if you
want to change the look and feel,
display settings if you want to adjust the resolution,
color depth, this sort of thing.
Before I go there though,
I just want to quickly mention this that you might have
noticed that your shortcut menu when you right-click the
desktop looks a bit different from mine.
What you have here are what are called shell extensions.
Some applications allow you to add for convenience
certain options into the shortcut menu.
So I've installed Visual Studio code,
this is a free text editor that Microsoft publishes.
I could right-click a file, for instance,
and choose Open with code to easily open the file using Visual Studio code.
I also have installed the Get tools.
Get is a version control system that's used by programmers and
administrative automation people and you can open up or initialize a
get graphical or a bash session from this location,
again, through the right mouse click.
If we go to Display settings, whoop, I guess I was wrong.
I thought the display settings would open up the old classic interface,
but basically, this is where you can control the resolution.
If you have multiple displays,
you can adjust the order in which you want your displays listed.
I, myself, have three displays on my computer.
They don't show on this virtual machine,
of course, but they would on my honest to goodness computer,
my hardware computer.
Now the options that you see here in terms of scaling and resolution and
color depth are wholly dependent upon your display adapter and notice that
there is a link to display adapter properties,
and sure enough, that takes us into the classic Control Panel.
Display adapter refers to the device driver.
This is the engine that allows Windows to more accurately
control a particular piece of hardware. We'll talk more about that as the course goes on.